# ahpra regulatory guide full 2021
Preface This guide has been prepared by Ahpra in consultation with the National Boards (the Boards). It is intended to provide a decision-making framework for: - Decision-makers under the National Law; - health practitioners subject to a regulatory process, and their legal representatives; - notifiers and third parties that may become involved in the regulatory process (because they are a witness, or hold relevant information); and - the general public. This guide does not constitute a code or guideline within the meaning of section 39 of the National Law and is intended to provide general information only. It does not constitute legal advice. Purpose and aims The purpose of this guide is to set out how the Boards manage notifications about the health, performance and conduct of practitioners under Part 8 of the National Law. It aims to: - clearly and transparently convey how the health, performance and conduct schemes are administered by Ahpra and the Boards; and - provide general regulatory information to relevant tribunals and other decision-makers (such as panel members). General limitations This guide provides general guidance about key parts of Part 8 of the National Law as it applies uniformly in each jurisdiction (with the exception of New South Wales [NSW]). Accordingly, it does not address each difference in the application of the National Law in each state and territory, although it does consider some material differences. References to a 'practitioner' are, except where specified, intended to refer to a registered health practitioner in one of the 16 regulated health professions prescribed under the National Law. This guide does not provide information about students registered under the National Law. Regulatory Guide April 2021 4 Contents 1. Introduction 6 1.1 Background to the National Law 6 1.2 Objectives and operation of the National Law 6 1.3 Role of Ahpra and the National Boards 7 1.4 Council of Australian Governments (COAG) Policy Directions 8 2.…

# ai clinical use guide
AI Clinical Use Guide – Guidance for clinicians – Version 1.0 – August 2025 1 AI Clinical Use Guide Guidance for clinicians Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools can support a wide range of clinical tasks, improving care delivery, health outcomes, and patient satisfaction.1 Introduction AI has supported healthcare in Australia for decades, including early clinical decision support systems used to identify medicine interactions. Like all clinical innovations, AI can bring significant benefits for patient care but also introduces new risks.2 The rapid advancement and adoption of AI can result in new and increased risk, especially as evidence of safety and efficacy may lag behind implementation.2 This guidance and associated clinical scenarios support clinicians, together with their patients, in using AI safely and responsibly in patient care and are structured to support the steps of ‘before you use’, ‘while you use’ and ‘after you use’ AI tools. As with all healthcare technologies, clinicians must meet their professional and legal obligations, including Australian Health Professionals Regulatory Authority (Ahpra) and National Boards guidance in relation to patient safety and best practice in the application of AI tools. This requires you to: - Understand how the AI tool will be used in your workflow and recognise your accountability for all AI outputs that inform a clinical decision, finding or documented record. - Understand the problems that the AI tool is intended to solve, potential clinical or operational benefits, and clinical risks. - Confirm the evidence base for the tool including its risks and limitations and how these are managed. - Be prepared to discuss the potential benefits, risks and limitations of an AI tool with patients. AI Clinical Use Guide – Guidance for clinicians – Version 1.0 – August 2025 2 - Recognise ethical implications including the potential for inequity and bias in how AI tools use and process data and generate outputs such as…

# ai safety scenario ambient scribe
AI Safety Scenario – Ambient scribe – Version 1.0 – August 2025 1 AI Safety Scenario Ambient scribe This safety and quality scenario provides clinicians with an example application of tools which use generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) in clinical note taking to demonstrate safe and responsible use. The example is the use of ambient AI scribes to generate clinical records. The scenario should be read in conjunction with the Commission’s AI Clinical Use Guide. Also review the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra) and the National Boards guidance and information from your professional association or college for example The Royal Australian College of General Practice. Unlike verbatim transcription, ambient AI scribes are intended to record and then use generative AI to summarise a consultation, which is then added to the heath care record. Like any clinical innovation you will need to understand the potential benefits, limitations, and risks; obtain consent; and monitor outcomes and performance, as outlined in the AI Clinical Use Guide. The rapid evolution of these tools may mean current or future features meet the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) definition of a medical device and require subsequent inclusion in the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods (ARTG). For example, an ambient AI scribe suggesting a diagnosis or further treatment that was not mentioned to the patient (even if this was not the original intent of the software) may trigger the requirement for inclusion in the ARTG. If in doubt, contact the TGA through your organisation’s channels. Before using an ambient AI scribe Review the evidence Generally, and depending on specific functionality, AI tools used to assist administrative processes, such as ambient AI scribes are not regulated as a medical device by the TGA, nor does ambient AI scribe software have rigorous supporting evidence on safety and performance. It is critical that you review the available information…

# ai safety scenario medical images
AI Safety Scenario – Interpretation of medical images – Version 1.0 – August 2025 1 AI Safety Scenario Interpretation of medical images This safety and quality scenario provides clinicians with an example application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools which use machine learning in medical imaging to demonstrate safe and responsible use. The example is Artificial Intelligence (AI) supported detection of clinical findings in medical images, acknowledging AI is used in a variety of ways in the medical imaging sector. This guidance should be read in conjunction with the Commission’s AI Clinical Use Guide. Also review the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra) and the National Boards guidance and information from your professional association or college for example The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Radiologists. AI tools using machine learning (ML) have increasing use and can support clinical decision-making.1 Examples include AI-based algorithms used in medical imaging systems to analyse mammograms to detect cancer and classify breast density and for abnormality detection in chest radiographs. Although computer-aided medical image interpretation has been used for decades, there are key differences in contemporary AI tools: - They are trained and tested to detect specific findings within defined populations and clinical settings. - ML algorithms within AI tools may operate with limited transparency, making it difficult for clinicians to understand how they produced specific predictions or classifications. - Are usually TGA approved as a medical device, including the ML algorithm. The use of AI tools in medical imaging can have a direct impact on clinician decision- making and due diligence should be taken to consider appropriate use, consent, target population, known limitations such as bias, risks and benefits, ongoing monitoring and outcomes. Before using AI for image interpretation Review the evidence As most AI tools used in…

# allowah nursing practice standards code of conduct policy
Page 1 Nursing Practice Standards and Code of Conduct Policy – 13 March 2023 Nursing Practice Standards and Code of Conduct Application Effective Date Programme application March 2023 Allowah Presbyterian Children’s Hospital and its programs Key Policy Writer E McClean Policy Review group members CEO, MMS&P, DON, DCGU, RNiCP, CNE Approved / Reviewed Approved by Date Review date ELT 27.2303.01 13 March 2023 March 2026 Document Control Issue Date Author Change Description 1 March 2023 E McClean New Policy Page 2 Nursing Practice Standards and Code of Conduct Policy – 13 March 2023 Safe Work Practices PATIENT / PARENT EDUCATION HAND HYGIENE TAKE CARE WITH SHARPS STANDARD PRE- CAUTIONS ADDITIONAL INFECTION CONTROL PRECAUTIONS BACK CARE MANUAL HANDLING MAINTAIN ELECTRICAL SAFETY SPILLS ARE HAZARDOUS CLINICAL COMPETENCY Other relevant policies Nursing and Midwifery Code of Conduct Credentialling and Scope of Clinical Practice Document Summary / Key Points: - Introduction to the Nursing Practice Standards - Introduction to the Nursing Code of Conduct Change Summary: - New Policy Table of Contents 1. REFERS TO ............................................................................... 3 2. PURPOSE ................................................................................. 3 3. POLICY STATEMENT ................................................................. 3 4. RESPONSIBILITIES .................................................................. 4 4.1. Chief Executive Officer .............................................................................. 4 Page 3 Nursing Practice Standards and Code of Conduct Policy – 13 March 2023 4.2. Director of Nursing .................................................................................... 4 4.3. Registered Nurses and Enrolled Nurses ..................................................... 4 5. REGISTERED NURSE STANDARDS FOR PRACTICE .................... 4 6. ENROLLED NURSE STANDARDS FOR PRACTICE…

# health practitioner regulation national law act 2009
Queensland Health Practitioner Regulation National Law Act 2009 Current as at 1 July 2024 Amendments not yet in force There are amendments for this title that have been enacted but have not yet commenced. The following amendments that have not commenced are not incorporated in this reprint but are annotated on the website for information—2025 Act No. 6. These annotations were incorporated on 9 September 2025. See the List of legislation in the Legislative history for uncommenced amendments enacted after this date. © State of Queensland 2025 This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. Queensland Health Practitioner Regulation National Law Act 2009 Contents Page Part 1 Preliminary 1 Short title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 2 Commencement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 3 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Part 2 Adoption of Health Practi tioner Regulation National Law 4 Application of Health Practitioner Regulation National Law . . . . 26 5 Meaning of generic terms in Health Practitioner Regulation National Law for purposes of this jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 6 Responsible tribunal for Health Practitioner Regulation National Law (Queensland) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 7 Exclusion of legislation of this jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 7A Co-regulatory jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 7B Co-regulatory authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 7C Adjudication body . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Part 3 Provisions specific to this jurisdiction 8 Police commissioner may give crimi nal history information . . . . 28 9 Review of…

# icn code of ethics nurses 2021
1 THE ICN CODE OF ETHICS FOR NURSES REVISED 2021 International Council of Nurses 2 All rights reserved, including translation into other languages. This work may be reprinted and redistributed, in whole or in part, without alteration and without prior written permission, provided the source is indicated. Copyright © 2021 by ICN - International Council of Nurses, 3, place Jean Marteau, 1201 Geneva, Switzerland ISBN: 978-92-95099-94-4 TABLE OF CONTENTS PURPOSE OF THE CODE 2 PREAMBLE 2 THE ICN CODE 3 APPLYING THE ELEMENTS OF THE CODE 3 SUGGESTIONS FOR USE of the ICN Code of Ethics for Nurses 4 DISSEMINATION of the ICN Code of Ethics for Nurses 4 ELEMENTS OF THE CODE 5 1. NURSES AND PATIENTS OR OTHER PEOPLE REQUIRING CARE OR SERVICES 7 2. NURSES AND PRACTICE 12 3. NURSES AND THE PROFESSION 15 4. NURSES AND GLOBAL HEALTH 18 ICN Code of Ethics for Nurses Professional Values 21 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED in the ICN Code of Ethics for Nurses 23 REFERENCES 28 2 An international code of ethics for nurses was first adopted by the International Council of Nurses (ICN) in 1953. It has been revised and reaffirmed at various times since, most recently with this review and revision completed in 2021. PURPOSE OF THE CODE The ICN Code of Ethics for Nurses is a statement of the eth ical values, responsibilities and professional accountabilities of nurses and nursing students 1 that defines and guides ethical nursing practice within the different roles nurses assume. It is not a code of conduct but can serve as a framework for eth ical nursing practice and decision-making to meet professional standards set by regulatory bodies. The ICN Code of Ethics for Nurses provides ethical guidance in relation to nurses’ roles, duties, responsibilities, behaviours, professional judgement and relationships with patients, other people who are receiving nursing care or services, co-workers and allied professionals. The Code is foundational and to be built upon in combination with the laws, regulations…

# national statement ethics human research 2023
National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research 2023 Publication details Publication title: National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research Published: 2023 Publisher: National Health and Medical Research Council NHMRC Publication reference: E72C Online version: www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/publications/national-statement-ethical- conduct-human-research-2023 ISBN Print: 978-0-6484644-2-6 ISBN Online: 978-0-6484644-3-3 Suggested citation: National Health and Medical Research Council, Australian Research Council and Universities Australia (2023). National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research. Canberra: National Health and Medical Research Council. Cover Images: iStock image COPYRIGHT © Commonwealth of Australia 2023 All material presented in this publication is provided under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International licence (www.creativecommons.org.au ), with the exception of the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, NHMRC logo and any content identified as being owned by third parties. The details of the relevant licence conditions are available on the Creative Commons website ( www.creativecommons.org.au ), as is the full legal code for the CC BY 4.0 International licence . ATTRIBUTION Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence is a standard form licence agreement that allows you to copy, distribute, transmit and adapt this publication provided that you attribute the work. The NHMRC’s preference is that you attribute this publication (and any material sourced from it) using the following wording: Source: National Health and Medical Research Council. USE OF IMAGES Unless otherwise stated, all images (including background images, icons and illustrations) are copyrighted by their original owners. CONTACT US To obtain information regarding NHMRC publications or submit a copyright request, contact: E: communications@nhmrc.gov.au P: (02) 6217 9000 1 NATIONAL STATEMENT ON ETHICAL CONDUCT IN HUMAN RESEARCH CONTENTS Contents THE NATIONAL…

# nsqhs standards second edition 2021
National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards Second edition – 2021 Published by the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care Level 5, 255 Elizabeth Street, Sydney NSW 2000 Phone: 1800 304 056 Email: AdviceCentre@safetyandquality.gov.au Website: www.safetyandquality.gov.au ISBN: 978-1-922563-11-8 – print ISBN: 978-1-922563-12-5 – online © Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care 2021 All material and work produced by the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care is protected by copyright. The Commission reserves the right to set out the terms and conditions for the use of such material. As far as practicable, material for which the copyright is owned by a third party will be clearly labelled. The Commission has made all reasonable efforts to ensure that this material has been reproduced in this publication with the full consent of the copyright owners. With the exception of any material protected by a trademark, any content provided by third parties, and where otherwise noted, all material presented in this publication is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution- NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International licence. Enquiries about the licence and any use of this publication are welcome and can be sent to communications@safetyandquality.gov.au . The Commission’s preference is that you attribute this publication (and any material sourced from it) using the following citation: Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care. National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards. 2nd ed. – version 2. Sydney: ACSQHC; 2021. Disclaimer The content of this document is published in good faith by the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care for information purposes. The document is not intended to provide guidance on particular healthcare choices. You should contact your healthcare provider on particular healthcare choices. This document includes the views or recommendations of its…

# wma declaration of helsinki 2013
Copyright 2013 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human Subjects World Medical Association Adopted by the 18th WMA General Assembly, Helsinki, Finland, June 1964, and amended by the: 29th WMA General Assembly, Tokyo, Japan, October 1975 35th WMA General Assembly, Venice, Italy, October 1983 41st WMA General Assembly, Hong Kong, September 1989 48th WMA General Assembly, Somerset West, Republic of South Africa, October 1996 52nd WMA General Assembly, Edinburgh, Scotland, October 2000 53rd WMA General Assembly, Washington, DC, USA, October 2002 (Note of Clarification added) 55th WMA General Assembly, Tokyo, Japan, October 2004 (Note of Clarification added) 59th WMA General Assembly, Seoul, Republic of Korea, October 2008 64th WMA General Assembly, Fortaleza, Brazil, October 2013 Preamble 1. The World Medical Association (WMA) has developed the Dec- laration of Helsinki as a statement of ethical principles for medi- cal research involving human subjects, including research on identifiable human material and data. The Declaration is intended to be read as a whole and each of its constituent paragraphs should be applied with consider- ation of all other relevant paragraphs. 2. Consistent with the mandate of the WMA, the Declaration is ad- dressed primarily to physicians. The WMA encourages others who are involved in medical research involving human subjects to adopt these principles. General Principles 3. The Declaration of Geneva of the WMA binds the physician with the words, “The health of my patient will be my first consider- ation,” and the International Code of Medical Ethics declares that, “A physician shall act in the patient's best interest when provid- ing medical care.” 4. It is the duty of the physician to promote and safeguard the health, well-being and rights of patients, including those who are involved in medical research. The physician's…

# wma international code medical ethics 2022
W MA INTERNATIONAL CODE OF MEDICAL ETHICS A A dopted by the 3 dopted by the 3 General Assembly of the World Medical Association, London, England, October 1949 General Assembly of the World Medical Association, London, England, October 1949 Revised by the 22 Revised by the 22 World Medical Assembly, Sydney, Australia, August 1968, World Medical Assembly, Sydney, Australia, August 1968, the 35 the 35 World Medical Assembly, Venice, Italy, October 1983, World Medical Assembly, Venice, Italy, October 1983, the 57 the 57 WMA General Assembly, Pilanesberg, South Africa, October 2006 WMA General Assembly, Pilanesberg, South Africa, October 2006 and by the 73 and by the 73 WMA General Assembly, Berlin, Germany, October 2022 WMA General Assembly, Berlin, Germany, October 2022 P REAMBLE T he World Medical Association (WMA) has developed the International Code of Medical Ethics as a canon of ethical principles for the members of the medical profession worldwide. In concordance with the WMA Declaration of Geneva: The Physician’s Pledge and the WMA’s entire body of policies, it de-nes and elucidates the professional duties of physicians towards their patients, other physicians and health professionals, themselves, and society as a whole. T he physician must be aware of applicable national ethical, legal, and regulatory norms and standards, as well as relevant international norms and standards. S uch norms and standards must not reduce the physician’s commitment to the ethical principles set forth in this Code. T he International Code of Medical Ethics should be read as a whole and each of its constituent paragraphs should be applied with consideration of all other relevant paragraphs. Consistent with the mandate of the WMA, the Code is addressed to physicians. The WMA encourages others who are involved in healthcare to adopt these ethical principles. G ENERAL PRINCIPLES 1. The primary duty of the physician is to promote the health and well-being of individual patients by…
